# Estimate Pi

A fun implementation of Buffon's needle problem to estimate the value of π.

## Motivation

This project was inspired by an Instagram video about Buffon's needle problem. I wanted to write some code for fun to estimate π using this problem, but ended up having GitHub Copilot do all the work right after I named the class BuffonsNeedle.

Note: The original method BuffonsNeedle.EstimatePi was almost entirely generated by Copilot.

Another motivation was to try C# development completely without Visual Studio using the dotnet CLI and VS Code. So far, I can say I like the GitHub Copilot integration in VS Code much more than in Visual Studio.

## What is Buffon's Needle Problem?

Buffon's needle is a classic problem in geometric probability that can be used to estimate π. By dropping needles onto a surface with parallel lines and counting how many cross the lines, we can calculate an approximation of π.

For more detailed information about the mathematical theory behind this problem, see:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buffon%27s_needle_problem

## Improvement #1

I was able to run 100 billion needles in a little less than 9 minutes by implementing Parallel.For. I was not patient enough to let the original method run for that many needles.

There is no improvement in the estimate from 100,000,000 needles; in fact, it might actually be worse.

```bash
Needle count: 100000000000
Time taken: 8.996 minutes
3.141592653589793 --- actual
3.1416087321339803 --- estimated
-------------------------------
Absolute Error: 0.0000161
Percentage Error: 0.00051%
Correct Digits: 4
```
